So now that we've talked about
how to visualize these hook
methods, let's go ahead
and look more carefully
at their implementations.
And again, I don't
think there'll
be a lot of surprises
at this point,
because some of this stuff
will look very familiar to you.
But I think it's
important for you
to have comfort in knowing sort
of how you go from visualizing
to implementing.
You could also see how the
behavior of this implementation
stacks up against the other
implementations, especially
the ones that use
the parallelism
features of parallel streams
and CompletableFutures
much more effectively.
And we'll cover that when we
do some analysis at the end
of this week's lesson.
So just to reiterate,
here's processStream.
This searches
sequentially for phrases
in lists of the input strings.
And here's what the
implementation looks like.
We have the
processStream method.
And it calls the
getInput helper method,
which gets a list of
character sequences
that contain all the
works of Shakespeare.
We talked about that before.
getInput is something
that's defined deep
in the bowels of the StreamGang
framework, just gets the input.
In this case, it reads it from
a file, which we'll talk about
in just a little bit.
We end up with a
list of CharSequences
here, because we
were trying to avoid
the overhead of
substring, which is not
incurred by using subSequence
with a CharSequence instead.
And we're going to return a
list of lists of search results.
And as I mentioned
before, we're going
to flatten this list
into a stream of search
results in the
print phrases method
by using the flatMap
method, which
is a very cool intermediate
operation defined
on streams, which we've
talked briefly about before.
And now we'll
really see it being
used in all its full-blown glory
to do some really cool stuff.
As before, SearchResults
is just the data structure
that keeps track of the number
of times a phrase appeared
in a given input string.
And in addition to keeping
track of the number of times,
it also keeps track
of the location
where the result occurred.
And it does this by basically
having a list of result objects
that keep track of the index
where that result was found,
where the phrase was matched.
As you can see here, we
implement process stream
as a sequential stream pipeline.
Looks pretty straightforward.
You'll notice a
whole bunch of things
here relative to our
object-oriented approach, which
we'll talk about as we
go through this code.
The first thing you see here is
that we call the .stream method
on the input list,
and that, of course,
converts the input
list into a stream.
And under the hood, as we've
talked about several times
before, the stream
factory method uses
StreamSupport.stream, passing in
the spliterator for the list--
in this case the ArrayList--
and the value false,
indicating that we just want
to have a sequential stream.
So now we have a
sequential stream.
The next stage in the stream is
the map intermediate operation.
Map, of course, will take
every input string, every input
character sequence, and
call a method reference
on it, which is a
behavior, in this case.
In this case, the behavior
we're going to call
is the processinput method.
And that will be applied to
each input in the stream.
And that will then go look
up the various phrases
we care about.
And processinput will return
a list of search results, one
for each input string.
And they may be empty,
as we've seen before,
so they may have an empty
list of search results.
We'll talk later about
how to deal with that.
Collect, as always, is
a terminal operation
that triggers the intermediate
operation processing.
In this case, we're going
to end up creating a list.
So if you think about
this list will end up
being a nonconcurrent
collector, since we
have a sequential stream.
And this list will be used
in order to essentially
collect the list
of search results
into a list of list
of search results.
So we're going to have a list
of list of search results
being the reduced value
coming back from collect.
And one of the cool
things about this,
one of the things I really
want to emphasize here, if you
go back and compare and
contrast this with our earlier
object-oriented
implementation, I
think you'll be able to see very
quickly that collect and tolist
work together to allocate
memory for the results.
And in fact, that's really
done by the collector returned
by tolist.
And as a result, this is much
less tedious and error-prone
to write than the
object-oriented version,
where we had to
remember to initialize
this list of list of results
list object with an array list
explicitly.
Now we don't know.
We don't care.
We just call the two lists
collector, factor method,
and boom.
We get a data structure
that automatically creates
the appropriate type of list.
And that then will get
returned as the return value
from the processStream method.
So again, I think
this is much cleaner.
There's no control constructs.
There's no looping.
There's no if statements.
It just does its thing and
it allocates the memory
automatically.
In fact, we probably could have
been even more concise here
and just said,
getInput ().stream,
without even creating this
intermediate list variable
called inputList.
I just did that so I had
something to talk about.
But a real streams
programmer would have
made this even more concise.
Let's now go ahead
and talk about how
to implement processInput
as a sequential stream.
So thinking back to our earlier
discussion about visualization,
the processInput method will
search the input stream--
which, of course, is the
work of Shakespeare--
for all occurrences
of phrases to find,
where hopefully, the phrases
are phrases from Shakespeare.
Otherwise, we'll be
rather disappointed
when we go about
trying to look them up
and we'll always come up empty.
So-- and the other funny thing,
of course, is a lot of people
misquote Shakespeare.
So if you try to
look up the phrase,
"alas, poor Yorick,
I knew him well,"
you're probably
not going to find
that, because that's
not actually something
that Hamlet said.
He said something a little
different than that.
So here is the
processInput method.
processinput takes
a character sequence
that corresponds to the
text file, a section of it--
a section of the file that
was managed by the test driver
program.
We'll come back and look in
more detail at this test driver
program a little bit later
in this week's lesson.
So just imagine for
sake of argument,
that this input
sequence parameter
points to text from one
of Shakespeare's works.
As we saw before with the
object-oriented version,
we're going to go ahead and kind
of split up this input sequence
into two parts, the title and
the actual body of the play,
the text of the play itself.
And again, we use subSequence
to make this a little cleaner.
subSequence-- not
subsequence-- but subSequence
is used to avoid memory
copying overhead.
So it's just a nicer way to go.
We then go ahead and
create another stream.
Remember, last time, we had
for loops and if statements,
and so on, in our
object-oriented implementation.
That's all been eliminated.
What we do now is we
take mPhrasesToFind,
which is the list of phrases
we're going to look up.
And we convert that to a
stream of phrases to look up.
And then for each
phrase, we're going
to call the searchForPhrase
function, which
we'll look at later.
Passing in the phrase,
we're looking up
the input string containing
the work of Shakespeare,
the title of the
work of Shakespeare,
and the false flag.
And the false Boolean
flag is very important,
because this instructs
the searchForPhrase method
to use a sequential stream, as
opposed to a parallel stream.
And when we talk about the
parallel spliterator example
much, much later, you'll see
how we turn false to true.
And all of a sudden, we
have a parallel stream here,
which is pretty cool.
So what we're going
to do now is we're
going to go ahead and take
that stream of search results
that comes back, and
we're going to throw out
anything that's empty.
So another way of looking
at that is we only--
the filter only lets through
elements that are non-empty--
that's how you read that.
So we'll have non-empty
search results come through.
And there's a couple of
different ways to do that.
This way I show here, which
is kind of the way I like--
because I am admittedly a
former C++ programmer and I like
the way that STL provided
composition of functors
and adapters, and so on.
So I basically use a negator
predicate lambda in conjunction
with a method reference for the
isEmpty method in the search
results class.
So I only let things
through that are non-empty.
There's other ways
to do this, though.
One way to do this would be
to take SearchResults isEmpty
and cast it to be a
predicate, and then
call the negate method on it.
And that's what's often
called a composed predicate,
so I could do it that way.
Or, an even simpler way to do it
is to use a lambda expression,
where I take a search
result and I say,
hey, is the search result
size greater than zero?
If the answer is
no, I ignore it.
If the answer is yes, I let
it pass through the filter.
Map and filter, of course, are
both intermediate operations.
There are no control
constructs in this code.
So there's no loops.
There's no if statements.
So you can just read
this thing linearly.
You just say, make
a stream of phrases.
Search for the phrases, filter
out the empty search results,
and then the last thing we do
is we collect everything up
into a list of search results.
As always, collect triggers
intermediate operation
processing and
yields a result which
is a list, which of course, is
implemented as an array list.
And we'll talk about how the
toList factor method works
later, when we talk about
the predefined non-concurrent
collectors that come out of
the box with the Java Streams
package.
Again, a nice thing about this
is that collect and toList
work together to allocate
all the memory we need here.
And so this is a lot less error
prone than the OO version.
So no control constructs and
no explicit memory allocation,
can read the thing top to
bottom, much less tedious, much
less error prone--
just a big win all
the way around.
We end up with a list of
search results as the results
of this terminal operation.
And this then gets returned
as the return value
from the processInput methods.
So processInput returns a
list of search results, which
will then be used and combined
by processStream to end up
with a list of list
of search results
and we'll talk shortly
about how that all gets
flattened out as we go a
little further into our lessons
this week.